Update tune-performance-with-the-query-store.md (#9802)
MicrosoftDocs/sql-docs: docs/relational-databases/performance/tune-performance-with-the-query-store.md

> The number of queries with the longest average execution time within last hour:

Reviewer: Nit: use of "longest average execution time" vs "highest average execution time" or "highest average duration"

```suggestion
The number of queries with the highest average duration within last hour:
```

```sql

> SELECT TOP 10

Reviewer: The query below is what you get from the QDS Top Resource Consuming Queries report in SSMS, for Avg Duration.  

```
SELECT TOP 10 p.query_id query_id,
    q.object_id object_id,
    ISNULL(OBJECT_NAME(q.object_id), '''') object_name,
    qt.query_sql_text query_sql_text,
    ROUND(CONVERT(FLOAT, SUM(rs.avg_duration * rs.count_executions)) / NULLIF(SUM(rs.count_executions), 0) * 0.001, 2) avg_duration,
    SUM(rs.count_executions) count_executions,
    COUNT(DISTINCT p.plan_id) num_plans
FROM sys.query_store_runtime_stats rs
INNER JOIN sys.query_store_plan p
    ON p.plan_id = rs.plan_id
INNER JOIN sys.query_store_query q
    ON q.query_id = p.query_id
INNER JOIN sys.query_store_query_text qt
    ON q.query_text_id = qt.query_text_id
WHERE rs.last_execution_time > DATEADD(hour, - 1, GETUTCDATE())
GROUP BY p.query_id,
    qt.query_sql_text,
    q.object_id
HAVING COUNT(DISTINCT p.plan_id) >= 1
ORDER BY avg_duration DESC;
```

Notice the way that the average is calculated, this is what should be used.  Doing (AVG(rs.avg_duration)) is an average of averages, which results in a different (and not accurate) number.  Also note that the query below does the math to convert to seconds.  Default in the Query Store objects is milliseconds.  Remove that math to get values consistent with the other queries on the page...

I would adjust the original query to be:

```
SELECT TOP 10 ROUND(CONVERT(FLOAT, SUM(rs.avg_duration * rs.count_executions)) / NULLIF(SUM(rs.count_executions), 0), 2) avg_duration,
    SUM(rs.count_executions) AS total_execution_count,
    qt.query_sql_text,
    q.query_id,
    qt.query_text_id,
    p.plan_id,
    GETUTCDATE() AS CurrentUTCTime,
    MAX(rs.last_execution_time) AS last_execution_time
FROM sys.query_store_query_text AS qt
INNER JOIN sys.query_store_query AS q
    ON qt.query_text_id = q.query_text_id
INNER JOIN sys.query_store_plan AS p
    ON q.query_id = p.query_id
INNER JOIN sys.query_store_runtime_stats AS rs
    ON p.plan_id = rs.plan_id
WHERE rs.last_execution_time > DATEADD(HOUR, - 1, GETUTCDATE())
GROUP BY qt.query_sql_text,
    q.query_id,
    qt.query_text_id,
    p.plan_id
ORDER BY avg_duration DESC;
```

   AVG(rs.avg_duration) AS avg_duration,
   SUM(rs.count_executions) AS total_execution_count,
   qt.query_sql_text,
   q.query_id,
   qt.query_text_id,
   p.plan_id,
   GETUTCDATE() AS CurrentUTCTime,
   MAX(rs.last_execution_time) AS last_execution_time
FROM sys.query_store_query_text AS qt
JOIN sys.query_store_query AS q ON
   qt.query_text_id = q.query_text_id
JOIN sys.query_store_plan AS p ON
   q.query_id = p.query_id
JOIN sys.query_store_runtime_stats AS rs ON
   p.plan_id = rs.plan_id
WHERE rs.last_execution_time > DATEADD(HOUR, -1, GETUTCDATE())
GROUP BY qt.query_sql_text, q.query_id, qt.query_text_id, p.plan_id
ORDER BY AVG(rs.avg_duration) DESC;
```

> #### Biggest average physical I/O reads

Reviewer: Nit: I would change "Biggest" to something consistent with the rest of the page (Highest average physical I/O reads)

```suggestion
#### Highest average physical I/O reads
```

#### Queries with multiple plans

> These queries are especially interesting because they're candidates for regressions due to plan choice change. 

Reviewer: Suggestion: "these queries" is vague...  What about "Queries with more than one plan are especially interesting because they can be candidates for a regression in performance due to a change in plan choice."

```suggestion
Queries with more than one plan are especially interesting, because they can be candidates for a regression in performance due to a change in plan choice.
```

> The following query identifies the queries with the highest number of plans:

Reviewer: I would change this query - there's no predicate on it so it will run against the entire Query Store.  Also, it's not restricted so it won't return queries with the highest number of plans, it will return ALL queries that have more than one plan.  My suggestion below, and the description would be "The following query identifies queries with more than one plan that have executed in the last hour."

Also, please change "cnt" to "PlanCount" or something similar :)  It's also used in another query.  Thanks!

```
SELECT q.query_id,
    object_name(object_id) AS ContainingObject,
    COUNT(*) AS QueryPlanCount,
    STRING_AGG(p.plan_id, ',') plan_ids,
    qt.query_sql_text
FROM sys.query_store_query_text AS qt
INNER JOIN sys.query_store_query AS q
    ON qt.query_text_id = q.query_text_id
INNER JOIN sys.query_store_plan AS p
    ON p.query_id = q.query_id
INNER JOIN sys.query_store_runtime_stats AS rs
    ON p.plan_id = rs.plan_id
WHERE rs.last_execution_time > DATEADD(HOUR, - 1, GETUTCDATE())
GROUP BY OBJECT_NAME(object_id),
    q.query_id,
    qt.query_sql_text
HAVING COUNT(DISTINCT p.plan_id) > 1
ORDER BY QueryPlanCount DESC;
```
